# Basic File System

# **Linux Filesystems**

Libraries separate books and other media into multiple sections; this organization will depend on the subject matter, audience, media type, and frequency of retrieval. The same concept applies to a filesystem, which is the embodiment of a method of storing and organizing arbitrary collections of data in a human-usable form.

Different types of filesystems supported by Linux:

- Conventional disk filesystems: **ext3**, **ext4**, **XFS**, **Btrfs**, **JFS**, **NTFS**, **vfat**, **exfat**, etc.
- Flash storage filesystems: **ubifs**, **jffs2**, **yaffs**, etc.
- Database filesystems
- Special purpose filesystems: **procfs**, **sysfs**, **tmpfs**, **squashfs**, **debugfs**, **fuse**, etc.

This section will describe the standard filesystem layout shared by most Linux distributions.

# **Partitions and Filesystems**

A partition is a  dedicated subsection of physical storage media.  Historically this meant a physically contiguous portion of a hard disk; today’s storage devices can be more complicated, but we still think of a partition as a fixed area to be treated as a whole.

# **More About the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard**

All Linux filesystem names are case-sensitive, so **`/boot`**, **`/Boot`**, and **`/BOOT`** represent three different directories (or folders). Many distributions distinguish between core utilities needed for proper system operation and other programs, and place the latter in directories under **`/usr`** (think user). To get a sense for how the other programs are organized, find the **`/usr`** directory in the diagram from the previous page and compare the subdirectories with those that exist directly under the system root directory `(**/**)`.